Welcome back to the computer forensics
path, course six, module five.
We're going to talk about
the transportation and
storage of digital evidence.
Transportation of evidence if possible, we
want to use the original packing material.
This will keep the item safe and
securely packed.
We want to use padding if available.
If the original packaging
is not available,
we want to make sure we pack the item as
securely as possible to limit movement.
You definitely want to keep digital
evidence away from extreme heat or cold.
Don't put it in the trunk of
your car on a summer day.
You want to keep it away from magnetic
sources because that can alter or
destroy your evidence.
Some of the things we have to consider
when we're doing transportation of
evidence, is large items.
If we have an item that is too large for
standard transportation,
you're going to have to
make arrangements and
have a plan to transport that large item,
too large to fit in a regular vehicle.
We may have to rent or
borrow a larger vehicle.
We may have other moving items.
We have to consider the weather.
If we're putting stuff in
the back of a pickup truck,
we want to make sure we know if
it's going to rain that day or not.
Time restrictions,
if we borrowed or rented a vehicle,
there are going to be some
type of time restrictions.
And when I say other moving items,
if you're moving an extremely large item,
you may need a dolly or some type of item,
a cart, these are all things we
need to consider when we're making
arrangements for large items.
Storage of evidence, you want to make
sure you store your evidence in a secure
location, and that secure location
needs to be access controlled.
Whether it's a log, whether you have
a camera system or you have a key card
entry system that is logged, you need
to make sure it's access controlled.
It also needs to be climate controlled,
because digital evidence needs to
stay at a certain temperature.
You don't want it too hot, you don't want
it too cold, you don't want it wet or
overly moisture there.
And we need to document
the chain of custody and
I know we've mentioned it before,
but it bears mentioning again.
You need to document every time
evidence is checked in and out.
You need to document who had
control over that evidence.
We need to include date and time that
the evidence is checked in and out.
And we need to account for
the evidence at all times.
You can't have a block of time where
the evidence is unaccounted for.
We're sitting on somebody's desk,
on somebody's locker, or
in a desk drawer, that is bad.
That is going to hurt you down the road.
This concludes course six.
In course seven,
we are going to cover the triage and
preservation of digital evidence.